# Project description

LinkTetrado is algorithm designed for the identification and classification
of multimeric nucleotide assemblies in nucleic acid structures.
LinkTetrado automatically identifies nucleotides interacting with tetrads in
a planar arrangement, allowing for the detection of pentads, hexads, heptads, octads, and beyond.
It analyzes nucleic acid 3D structures, accepting both PDB and mmCIF file formats.
It leverages the ElTetrado engine to extract detailed structural information about
base pairs and tetrads in an input structure. Next, it searches the space in the vicinity
of tetrads for possible nucleotides that could interact with the tetrads.

# Installation

Please download repository and run:

    python -m pip install .

<!-- TODO prepare proper pip install package

Please run:

    pip install linktetrado

-->

# Dependencies

The project is written in Python 3.8+ and requires
[NumPy](https://numpy.org/), and 
[ElTetrado](https://github.com/tzok/eltetrado) (Zok _et al._, 2022;
Popenda _et al._, 2020; Zok _et al._, 2020).

LinkTetrado parses the output of
[ElTetrado](https://github.com/tzok/eltetrado). It can also process PDB or
PDBx/mmCIF files which will be first analyzed internally with ElTetrado.

# Usage


    usage: linktetrado [-h] [-i INPUT] [--print-eltetrado] [-m MODEL]
                       [--stacking-mismatch STACKING_MISMATCH] [--strict]
                       [--no-reorder] [--dssr-json DSSR_JSON]

    options:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -i INPUT, --input INPUT
                            path to input PDB, PDBx/mmCIF file.
      --print-eltetrado     (optional) should ElTetrado analysis output also be
                            provided alongside multimer analysis.
      -m MODEL, --model MODEL
                            (optional, ElTetrado) model number to process
      --stacking-mismatch STACKING_MISMATCH
                            (optional, ElTetrado) a perfect tetrad stacking covers
                            4 nucleotides; this option can be used with values 1
                            or 2 to allow this number of nucleotides to be non-
                            stacked with otherwise well aligned tetrad [default=2]
      --strict              (optional, ElTetrado) nucleotides in tetrad are found
                            when linked only by cWH pairing
      --no-reorder          (optional, ElTetrado) chains of bi- and tetramolecular
                            quadruplexes should be reordered to be able to have
                            them classified; when this is set, chains will be
                            processed in original order, which for
                            bi-/tetramolecular means that they will likely be
                            misclassified; use with care!
      --dssr-json DSSR_JSON
                            (optional, ElTetrado) provide a JSON file generated by
                            DSSR to read the secondary structure information from
                            (use --nmr and --json switches)
<!-- TODO

# Examples

-->

# Bibliography

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body">

1.  ElTetrado: a tool for identification and classification of tetrads
    and quadruplexes. T. Zok, M. Popenda, M. Szachniuk. _BMC
    Bioinformatics_. 2020. 21(1):40.
    doi:[10.1186/s12859-020-3385-1](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12859-020-3385-1)

</div>
